So let's think about how do we translate
these subjective perceived
performance concepts,
into actual metrics that we can
care about and try and improve.
Because if we stay in psychology,
everything stays very squishy and
hard to quantify.
And so there's some ways that we
measure performance in the past.
And some ways that we're gonna
measure performance in the future and
they're different.
The old way the people measured
performance is with a metric
called page load.
So how long from the time you clicked
something until the page loaded.
So in the old days, like geo cities,
you'd click on it, and
some of the screen would paint but
it's not quite done.
And then the rest of
the screen would draw and
you could actually interact with it and
see what kinds of things were out there.
And that time from the start,
from when you initially click that link or
hit enter to go to that URL.
Until the page was done,
was yeah, was the load time.
And it was measured with the load events,
which was meant to be triggered.
Hey, everything is done.
Here's an event.
And I can measure the milliseconds between
those two things and get a measure.
Fortunately, soon as you start
attaching value to a metric.
Like a company is rewarding its
employees for hitting something,
or advertisers only being willing to
go on to a page that loaded so fast.
Soon as you start valuing a metric,
it's gonna get gamed, and
the load event was gamed.
Lots of techniques came around to
lazy load, to like defer stuff, like
don't actually paint a lot of
the screen until after the load event.
The user won't notice and our
load event will get a lot faster.
Well, we kind of ruined the metric
when that started happening.
Fact it got real bad.
It got to the point where the load
events on some sites would fire almost
right away.
Like it would be an empty screen with
a blank div and the load event would fire.
And then all the JavaScript would
wake up and build the page.
Well, we're not measuring
anything anymore,
that metric has lost all its value.
And so we've invented some new ways.
Some new ways that are going
to be harder to game.
I'm not saying that people won't hack
these metrics, but they're going
to be harder to break because they
measure subtly different things.
Rather than one metric that measures
from the start of the page to the end of
the page.
We have four different metrics that
measure four different aspects of
performance.
And these are called the core web vitals.
FCP, which stands for
the first contentful paint, LCP,
which is the largest contentful paint.
CLS which is the Cumulative Layout Shift,
and
the FID, which is the First Input Delay.
We're gonna talk about
each of these in detail.
But these metrics are alive and
well and impacting your site today.
Even if you have not heard of them.
Google cares about these metrics right
now, in your Google Webmaster Tools.
If you've been in there to like see how
Google ranks your site, how they crawl
your site, they're measuring your
web vitals values right now.
And if you cross over, their arbitrary,
their not arbitrary, their thresholds.
They will tell you, they'll say,
hey, these things are problems and
in the future, we're gonna reduce
your rank if you don't fix them.
This particular site has both
an LCP issue and a CLS issue.
And saying hey,
you got some things to fix here.
So let's dig in and understand
what each of these metrics mean.
The first contentful paint.
This is the time from the start,
when the user first clicks the link or
enters the URL, until the first
meaningful content enters the page.
It's not a blank div,
it's something was rendered.
It's the header bar on NPR.org.
It's the first link,
the title of the site, whatever.
This is the time that you take until you
can render the first bit of content.
The time untill the user sees
an indication that the page is loaded.
If we tie this back to psychology,
this is when the user first
feels their sense of certainty.
That that click registered and
that your site is online and
that they will get the data they're after.
Before that, there's a lot of uncertainty.
And the longer that goes with the white
page, the more uncertainty builds.
Condense this down to a simple rule.
This is about responding quick.
LCP is the largest contentful paint.
So, throughout the loading cycle,
different parts of your screen will draw.
And we can measure how much
of the screen has been drawn.
And the time at which the largest
percentage of the screen was rendered,
is the largest contentful paint.
And this is just measured in pixel area.
So each time a render cycle happens,
your browser will measure hey, what's
the length and width of this element that
just came in and all the other elements?
and here's the total area.
And the time at which the largest area was
rendered is the largest contentful paint.
Now this is a proxy for when does the user
think that the site is almost ready.
Here we can see an example on npr.org.
The largest contentful paint on
this page is actually the images,
which is very common.
A lot of times your images are gonna be so
big that the image becomes
the largest contentful paint.
And so all three of these images kind
of load at the same render cycle.
And so when the primary image is drawn.
And article images for the columns below.
And the advertisement image render,
this is LCP.
And so the time until these come in
is an important metric to Google.
This is the time until the user sees
that most of the page is there and
believes that it's either ready or
almost ready.
Condensing that down to a rule
that means get to the point.
The user came to your site for a reason.
Show that reason as fast as you can.
The third metric that we're gonna talk
about is cumulative layout shift, CLS.
This is a little GIF that we made,
that illustrates exactly what this is.
You come to a page and
you go to click a button, but
just as you're about to click a button.
Some really obnoxious thing
loads in asynchronously and
pushes the content down and
you almost just clicked on an ad.
In some cases it's almost like they're
trying to get you to mistakenly
click on an ad.
And if this happens multiple times,
it gets even more frustrating.
Well, this movement is
called the layout shift.
And the cumulative layout shift is
a measurement of all the times that this
happens during the lifetime of your page.
So here's the New York Times.
On the top, there's a really annoying top
banner image that you might have seen.
That pushes the whole page down.
And it's like 300 or 400 pixels,
and just is super irritating.
And then if that primary image
takes a little while to load,
that can push content out of the way
as the image comes in as well.
And so the Cumulative Layout Shift,
is the total shift that happened because
of the top image,
plus the total shift of the second image.
Now this isn't a metric that just
recorded once during loading is done.
This is the entire lifetime of the page.
So if you're asynchronously
loading content over time,
such as an infinite scroll list of things.
If you're injecting content and
pushing other content down, you're
creating lots and lots and lots of layout
shifts that Google is not gonna like.
And frankly users don't really like.
The cumulative layout shift is
the total movement distance and
the impact of page elements during
that entire lifetime of the document.
Simplified, don't move stuff around.
Once you've shown stuff on the screen,
don't move it even if other stuff
loads in asynchronously later.
Thinking for a second.
If the cumulative layout shift is
all of the shifts that happened
during the entire lifetime of a document.
How might this affect a client-side
rendered application or
react application
an angular application etc.
Well, in those sort of applications,
often you'll click on something, and
it'll redraw a big portion of
the screen to simulate a page movement.
But it wasn't really a page movement.
It was the same document it was before.
Did that push things around
as part of that click?
If so, that created a whole
lot of layout shift and
made your cumulative layout
shift score a whole lot worse.
All right, the fourth and
final web vital that we're gonna
talk about is the first input delay.
And for many,
this is the hardest one to understand.
Cuz it's more conceptual about what
the browser needs to be doing, and not so
much about what the user sees.
So let's say you see a web page load and
you think it's done,
the largest contentful paint has happened,
and you're ready to start doing things.
So CNN has loaded and
you go to click on an article.
Well, in order to improve their scores,
they might have deferred
a bunch of their work to load later
after the content has happened.
And that's fine.
That's a good thing to do.
But think deferred so much content, so
much JavaScript still needs to be run,
that the browser is busy doing
that when the user first clicks.
There's gonna be a delay, between
the time when the page looks ready, and
the user interacts with it, until the time
the first click handler can fire.
This isn't the time that
your click handler takes.
It's the time that the browser
is too busy parsing, and
compiling your JavaScript, to even
fire the event is the first input delay.
And so this is only measured on
times when the user interacts.
If the user never interacts with your
page, you never even get this metric.
But when they do, this is
an indication of your page is ready.
The user thought they could do something,
but
they really couldn't cuz
you weren't done yet.
You were still loading abnoxious
amounts of stuff in the background.
The first input delay is the browser time
delay between the users first click and
the execution of your application code.
Simplified, don't load so much stuff.
Don't load what you don't need.
So let's compile those together.
The first contentful paint
is about responding quick.
Get something out the door to
the user as soon as you can.
The largest contentful paint is about
measuring how well you get to the point.
Show the user what they came here for
as fast as you can.
The commulative layout shift is
a rule to don't move stuff around.
If you put it on the screen, don't change
where it is, as other things come in.
And the first input delay measures,
don't load too much stuff.
Don't put too many things on the page
that it's gonna slow the browser down.
Each of these metrics has a range,
that Google thinks is acceptable.
For LCP for example, if you can show
the largest amount of content in less than
two and a half seconds,
Google thinks you're doing great.
If it's less than four seconds,
you might need to get a little better.
If you're worse than that,
it thinks you suck.
And it thinks that it's going to
rank you slower in the future.
It's got these scores for
each of the metrics and it's available,
on the lighthouse reports and
on everything that they show you.
They're gonna colour code your stuff.
In fact, in our next exercise,
we're gonna take a look at that as well.